It in today's lecture we're going to be going over a third type of linear perspective which is three
point perspective.
So we went over one point perspective already where there one vanishing point and we went over to point
perspective where there are two vanishing points.
And now we're going to go over three point perspective where there are three vanishing points now rather
than being on the horizon line.
We're only going to have two points on the horizon line and one point above or below our horizon line.
So let's go ahead and get started.
So first let's make our vanishing points on the horizon line.
Now these will act exactly the same way as they do with two point perspective.
Go connect at some point together.
But then there's a third point that gets introduced and we can either add that to the top or the bottom.
In this case we're going to go ahead and added one to the top so we're going to add one right there
into the middle of our page and then more what we're going to do is we want to decide where we want
the middle of our ship to be or the corner edge so regularly we would make that a horizontal line.
But in this case it's actually going to become a diagonal line because it's going to come off this third
point.
So let's go ahead and create that.
So let's say that we want the corner edge of our cube to be right here.
So we'll go ahead and draw that in like so.
And now what we want to do is we want to go ahead and connect back to our vanishing points so will connect
from here to there.
Madrona and lightly so we can come back and you raise them to draw this one in from here to there and
we'll go ahead and draw this one in.
Then the last one.
All right.
Perfect.
So now we have the corner edge of our object.
The next thing we need to do is we need to create the other two edges of our box.
Now in this case it's going to be exactly the same over the Collines rather than just going straight
up and down are now going to lead back to this point.
So let's go ahead and add those and so on to start off with the one on my left side.
So I'm going to bring that to right.
They're going to do the same thing over here.
So we'll bring that to you.
All right.
They're great next.
Let's go ahead and solidify those top and bottom lines.
So connect them like so connect this one so you get the top one
at get the bottom on.
Right.
Perfect.
So why would you want to use three point perspective because this looks a little bit funky.
Well this is if you want to make some really exaggerated perspective now generally you're not going
to see through our perspective in real life.
You do but it's to the very small degree where you almost can't even notice it and other lines appear
to be vertically straight up and down.
But if you really want to exaggerate that so you look like you're looking up as something really tall
would say a skyscraper.
What you're going to incorporate that third perspective or that third vanishing point in there to give
the illusion that it's going off into a distance just the way that these go off into a vanishing point.
Well now the higher your object is the more it's going to go off into a vanishing point too.
So let's go ahead and try another shape.
So I want to go ahead and create my vertical line down here for my cue.
So and then I'll go ahead and create
this part down here for the top line and I will create the bottom part.
So I can take that all the way back to the other vanishing point.
Great.
Now let's go ahead and treat the two other lines to make up our edges.
So put one right here.
You know put another one right over here.
Now we can go ahead and connect to those edges.
So go ahead and connect from here to there.
From here to there now we can go ahead and solidify those lines.
We're perfect.
Now what if you wanted to create a circular object in a three point perspective.
Well the way you do that is the same way we do it with two point perspective.
And the thing I really want you to realize about through some perspective is it's just like to point
perspective the only difference is rather than only drawing the vertical straight up and down lines.
Now those lines need to also lead to your third point.
So how do we treat that circle.
Well just like we do in two point perspective we go ahead and we draw an X through our box from one
corner to the other corner.
So we find our center.
So there's our center right there and now rather than drawing a vertical line through this we need to
lead that middle line back up to our vanishing point which is our third vanishing point.
And then I find this middle line we need to go ahead and line it up at that point in the middle and
then back toward finishing point.
Now that we've done that we can go ahead and create our diamond
in quickly sketch out our circles.
So it's going to come around like some
so now we have a basic circle in perspective.
Now you can take more time to get that perfect circle.
But I just wanted to quickly demonstrate how to find that circle in a three point perspective.
Now why would you want to do three point perspective.
Let's go over some examples where a three point perspective is used.
Have you ever seen a drawing or a picture or a mat painting in a movie where there's a haunted house
and you're looking up at the haunted house.
And it's extremely exaggerated the haunted house looked really tall because the lines are getting smaller.
The taller it gets.
Well that's three point perspective.
So let's say for example that this is the entrance to a haunted mansion.
Well we would probably have a door right here.
And then we might have a window up here.
And I'm just trying to follow my perspective as best as possible I'm not going to take the time to actually
draw it in.
And then you might have a top on top of this.
It's kind of a dumb sort of a shape.
Then you might have slots of wood coming across here.
And that's just a really quick example.
Another place you might see this is in 3-D font.
So let's say that for example you're creating a comic book and you want some really exaggerated stylized
3-D font.
Well what you can do is you can use this perspective to create that font and use this as your base.
So let's say we wanted to put an M right here.
So let me go ahead and draw a line for my top area.
So we're going to put an end in this space right here.
So let's go ahead and try all that.
I mean as best we can in perspective.
All right so once we have the M drawn in this plane now we can go ahead and add the other three edge
to that by connecting back to this vanishing point all the way back to the edge of M and we'll go ahead
and draw a line like so we don't have to draw it all the way we just want to draw to about the depth
of what we want our shape to be.
Then you go ahead and add that scene edgin like so will do the same thing underneath there and it will
connect to this edge of R and also do the same over here.
Same with this.
Then if you wanted to you could go ahead and add in some shadowing underneath there to make it look
more realistic and three dimensional
but this is another example of where you might want to use three point perspective.
And also like I said you might use this if you're doing a cityscape and you're looking up at skyscrapers
you're definitely going to want to use three point perspective.
All right.
That brings us to the end of this lecture.
So in this lecture we learn how to create a three point perspective and where we might want to use this.
Now remember that three point perspective occurs everywhere in real life.
It's just that your third point is so far off and so far away that you almost can't even see the slant
in your vertical lines.
And so they all appear like they're going straight up and down.
But for the most part you're not going to really want to use point perspective.
But if you ever do this is how you do it.
Also remember that 3P perspective is just like two point perspective.
The only difference is is that your vertical lines are going to lead back to your third point rather
than going straight up and down.
Thanks for watching this lecture and I really look forward to seeing you in the next one.